There's one last little fix I want to make to our test file.
So right now instead of both of our tests we've got some really repetitive testing logic.
So in both cases that test right there in this one we say several times in a row if these things are
not equal throw in there and we can see this perfectly duplicated over and over again and as usual any
time that we've got some code duplication.
Well that usually means that there is an opportunity to do some refactoring or cleanup.
So in this video we're going to take a look at a module in it no jazz standard library that is going
to automate like that code block right there.
And that one and that one and so on.
So we're going to condense each of these big IF statements that are really ugly down to one single function
call to get started.
We're going to pull open our browser and take a look at the no jazz standard library documentation as
a quick reminder you can get there by going to you know J.S. dot org slash API once you're here on the
left hand side we'll find the link to assertion testing.
So this is a module that has a bunch of different functions inside of it that allow us to essentially
automate exactly what we're doing right here the different functions it will find are going to allow
us to make different assertions or compare different values against each other in slightly different
fashions a function that will allow us to replace these really big if statements that we can use very
easily is the strict equal function.
So instead of here I'm going to look where assert that strict equal it's down here towards the bottom
so we can see a really good example of how to use this right here inside the example.
So we call assert dot strict equal and then we pass in the value that we expect or excuse me the value
that we actually have out of our test.
And then as the second argument we pass on the value that we expected to get internally strict equal
is going to check and see if those two values are equal to each other.
If they're not it's then going to throw in their so we can use this very easily to replace all the different
if statements we currently have.
Let's flip back over to our code and do that replacement really quickly show up at the top.
I'm going to require a cert Rhonda a cert module we can then go down through all of our different if
statements and call a cert dot strict equal saw first go to the for each function right above the if
statement.
I will call a search dot strict equal at the first argument is going to be what we actually got out
of our test.
So this going to value that our code produced.
So for us in this case it would be the sum variable that is what our code produced in the second argument
is going to be the value that we expected to find which in this case is six.
All put in six as a second argument and just you know optionally we can pass in a third argument of
an error message if we put in a argument right here it's gonna be a simple string and it's going to
be printed up inside of our console when something goes wrong.
The only reason to put in the argument over here is to just clarify what we were really looking for
or what we were trying to compare here in a very simple test like what we have right here.
It is not really necessary to put in that third argument because chances are if something goes wrong
with this test you can probably open up this function and really quickly understand what was going on.
But if it was a little bit more complicated test and the assertion that we are trying to make right
here wasn't really clear in nature then we might choose to throw in some kind of message just to help
ourselves and other engineers understand what this thing was trying to check.
So in our case just as a demonstration I would normally not put a message here but in this case I will
I would put in something like expected for each to sum the array or something like that.
So it's something to say hey here's what we're trying to achieve.
We were trying to use the for each function to find the sum of all the values in the array so this assert
that strict equals statement can completely replace the if statement that we have right now.
So I can now delete the if statement entirely okay.
Let's say this really quickly I'll go back over to my terminal and run it I didn't see anything go wrong.
That is because we calculated a value that was equal to the expected value.
So some and six were equal to each other.
Let's once again change the value of six right there just to force our test to fail.
It's going to change that to seven.
I'll say this once again rerun the file and now I can see the error message right here expected for
each to sum the array
OK.
So this is going to condense down all these different tests we write quite a bit so we don't have to
use these really bulky if statements and say throw new error every single time I'm going to change the
seven right there back to a six and then going to go down to our map function and I'm going to update
this thing as well.
To use the Assert dot strict equal statement so we're going to call that function three times once for
each of these different statements this time around.
I'm not going to put in a message because once again I think that this test at the end of the day would
probably be easy enough to understand what was going on.
So we really shouldn't necessarily require a big error message to describe what we're trying to achieve
I'll do and assert not strict equal of results at zero.
That should be equal to two and I can simply paste this down twice the next one will be results at 1
and that should be equal to 4 and then results at 2 should be equal to 6.
Now we can delete all those if statements and we're left with just that
it I'll flip back over I rerun my tests and it looks like everything is still good.
I'm going to once again cause this test to artificially fail.
I always do this just to make sure that there's not some fluke and to make sure that all the tests are
expected to run actually are running.
There might be some weird scenario where I don't know.
Maybe I simply forgot to save the file or something like that that is making my test pass when in reality
they're failing.
So it's usually good practice to see your test fail one time and then fix it up to make it work.
So I'll take the six down here.
I'm going to change it to a 7
and now I can see the error message.
So we expected 6 to be equal to seven or something.
We expected six to equal.
Well no.
We did expect six to equal seven.
But in reality it should be six equal to six.
So now we can go back over change that back to a six.
Like so and we're all set okay.
So is the Assert module.
Now I want to mention that there are several other functions inside of here that are really handy to
have.
In particular we could technically replace this test right here with another function called strict
or something deep strict equal.
So this thing is going to take a look at all the different values inside of some object in this case
array and some expected values and make sure they are equal.
So we could technically have replaced these three calls with just one single call.
So let's try that out really quickly I'm going to comment those out we could have done a cert dot deep
strict equal
and said I expect the result to be equal to whoops 2 4 6.
Now this function is going to take a look at all the different values inside result and make sure that
they are equal to all the values inside of that array right there and in the same order of course.
Now we can save this try again and we're still good to go.
Once again I might choose to just make this thing fail on purpose I'll change that last one to a 7 and
there we go.
Nice thing about using the strict equal thing is it gives you this really nice error message to help
you understand exactly what was different.
So this is saying that the actual value we passed in like the value that our code produced had a six.
And that's indicated by the plus right there in green and then the expected value was missing or wanted
to have a seven but it is missing out of the expected value.
That's why we see the minus so kind of nice to use on these more complex functions because they'll just
give you a little bit more helpful.
Error Message In fact I think that's so nice.
I'll stick with that instead of the individual strict equals okay.
That's pretty much it.
So we now have a pretty solid.
Believe it or not testing implementation here.
So let's take a pause.
We're gonna come back the next video we're going to replace our little custom testing library that we
just assembled with some outside testing library and you're going to very quickly see as I mentioned
like 10 times now.
All this stuff is just plain identical so quick pause and we'll tackle that in just a moment.